Revise docs for removal of GCE Persistent Disk volume type (#44569)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes.md

> * [`rbd`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#rbd) - Rados Block Device (RBD) volume

Reviewer: For several types of storage we're now talking about volume types that are already only provided through CSI drivers. The migrations should already have happened, right?

> * [`rbd`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#rbd) - Rados Block Device (RBD) volume

Reviewer 2: When we talk about the CSI migration feature, that means users can continue using the built-in type in the API, but in the backend we redirect all the operations to the CSI driver. This means users can continue using the same objects and APIs.

There are other volume types that we deprecated without a CSI migration implementation. That means any existing objects will no longer be functional, and users have to create new objects that directly reference the CSI volume type.

> * [`rbd`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#rbd) - Rados Block Device (RBD) volume

Author: To get the list of volume types that are (or will be) supported by CSI migration, I am referring to https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/44367#discussion_r1427097893

As per that list,
azureFile - planned for 1.30, so we can add it to the list of CSI migration after 1.30 is GA. I propose no change for now.
flexVolume - Not in the CSI migration plan. No change needed in the documentation.
portworxVolume - no information available about in-tree plugin removal. So no change needed in the documentation.
vsphereVolume - planned for 1.30, so we can add it to the list of CSI migration after 1.30 is GA. I propose no change for now.
cephfs - Not in the CSI migration plan. No change needed in the documentation.
rbd - Not in the CSI migration plan. No change needed in the documentation.

Please keep me honest here.

  (**deprecated** in v1.28)

> The following in-tree PersistentVolume types are no longer available, but are supported through `CSIMigration` and have a corresponding CSI driver implemented.

Reviewer: Noted, however “in-tree“ doesn't sound quite right, if you need a CSI driver to use it.

> The following in-tree PersistentVolume types are no longer available, but are supported through `CSIMigration` and have a corresponding CSI driver implemented.

Reviewer 2: maybe "built-in API"?

> The following in-tree PersistentVolume types are no longer available, but are supported through `CSIMigration` and have a corresponding CSI driver implemented.

Author: I've changed it as follows in the latest commit.
`The following PersistentVolume types are supported through the CSIMigration feature gate and require the corresponding CSI driver to be installed in the cluster. Kubernetes offers built-in APIs to facilitate their use.`

* [`awsElasticBlockStore`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#awselasticblockstore) - AWS Elastic Block Store (EBS)

>   (**not available** starting with v1.27, see [AWS EBS](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-ebs-csi-driver) CSI driver)

Reviewer 2: Instead of "not available", I would say that these require the CSIMigration feature gate + CSI driver to be installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  &mdash;this support is **only** available via a separate CSI driver for Kubernetes version 1.27 and onwards,
  as Kubernetes' core no longer provides built-in support. The CSI driver you need to install and configure is
  [AWS EBS](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-ebs-csi-driver).
```

* [`azureDisk`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#azuredisk) - Azure Disk

>   (**not available** starting with v1.27, see [Azure Disk](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azuredisk-csi-driver) CSI driver)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  &mdash;this support is **only** available via a separate CSI driver for Kubernetes version 1.27 and onwards,
  as Kubernetes' core no longer provides built-in support. The CSI driver you need to install and configure is
  [Azure Disk](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azuredisk-csi-driver).
```

* [`cinder`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#cinder) - Cinder (OpenStack block storage)

>   (**not available** starting with v1.26, see [OpenStack Cinder](https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack/blob/master/docs/cinder-csi-plugin/using-cinder-csi-plugin.md) CSI driver)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    &mdash; but for Kubernetes version 1.26 and onwards, this volume type is **only** available via a separate CSI driver 
    as Kubernetes' core no longer provides built-in support. The CSI driver you need to install and configure is
    [OpenStack Cinder](https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack/blob/master/docs/cinder-csi-plugin/).
```

> * [`gcePersistentDisk`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#gcepersistentdisk) - GCE Persistent Disk
>   (**not available** starting with v1.28, see [GCE Persistent Disk](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gcp-compute-persistent-disk-csi-driver) CSI driver)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * [`gcePersistentDisk`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#gcepersistentdisk) - GCE Persistent Disk -
    but this support is **only** available via a separate CSI driver for Kubernetes version 1.28 and onwards,
    as Kubernetes' core no longer provides built-in support. The CSI driver you need to install and configure is
    [GCE Persistent Disk](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gcp-compute-persistent-disk-csi-driver) CSI-csi-driver).
```

Older versions of Kubernetes also supported the following in-tree PersistentVolume types:

* `photonPersistentDisk` - Photon controller persistent disk.

>   (**not available** starting with v1.15)

Reviewer: We could rewrite this and comment that there's no CSI driver for Photon available from Kubernetes.

Author: There is no CSI driver from Kubernetes for all the types in this section, not only Photon, right?
Should we add a statement such as `These volume types do not have a CSIMigration plan and are discontinued in newer Kubernetes releases.` ?

Reviewer 3: In the following page, we can find CSI drivers for Quobyte and StorageOS. However, since this is updated by maintainers of individual CSI drivers, the info can be stale as well. It's probably better not to mention whether there's a CSI driver or not as it could also change.
https://kubernetes-csi.github.io/docs/drivers.html

Reviewer: I think we should say when there are _in project_ drivers available. Readers would want to know.

Author: Thanks @xing-yang and @sftim. I understand it now. I have made an attempt to add this information in my latest commit.

* [`rbd`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#rbd) - Rados Block Device (RBD) volume
  (**deprecated** in v1.28)

The following PersistentVolume types are supported through the `CSIMigration` feature gate and require the corresponding CSI driver to be installed in the cluster. Kubernetes offers built-in APIs to facilitate their use.

> * [`awsElasticBlockStore`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#awselasticblockstore) - AWS Elastic Block Store (EBS)

Reviewer 4: There are these volume plugins / corresponding CSI drivers missing:

* AzureFile CSI migration went GA in 1.26
* vSphere CSI migration went GA in 1.26

IMO it would make more sense to have a table with in-tree volume plugin name, link to the CSI driver, and  Kubernetes version, with generic `this volume type is **only** available via a separate CSI driver 
  as Kubernetes' core no longer provides built-in support.` below it.

Reviewer: > IMO it would make more sense to have a table with in-tree volume plugin name, link to the CSI driver, and Kubernetes version, with generic `this volume type is **only** available via a separate CSI driver as Kubernetes' core no longer provides built-in support.` below it.

PRs very welcome (from any contributor)

Author: @sftim @jsafrane Unfortunately, I do not have the capacity currently to make this formatting change.
I request to not include this formatting change in the scope of this PR. If needed it can be opened as an enhancement issue and a contributor who would have the capacity could pick it up.

Reviewer 3: As commented early by @jsafrane , AzureFile and vSphere are missing.

>   &mdash; but for Kubernetes version 1.27 and onwards, this volume type is **only** available via a separate CSI driver 

Reviewer 4: AWS EBS CSI migration went [GA in 1.25](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.25.md#feature-14)

Reviewer 4: No, the CSI driver was really mandatory in 1.25. A Kubernetes cluster is not able to provision/delete or mount/unmount in-tree `awsElasticBlockStore` volumes without it. The only exception is attaching and detaching them to/from kubelets < 1.25, that's why we removed it in 1.27.

This applies to all plugins below.

Author: Updated the version in the latest commit.

  as Kubernetes' core no longer provides built-in support. The Kubernetes project provides an equivalent
  CSI driver, [AWS EBS](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-ebs-csi-driver).
* [`azureDisk`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#azuredisk) - Azure Disk

>   &mdash; but for Kubernetes version 1.27 and onwards, this volume type is **only** available via a separate CSI driver

Reviewer 4: AzureDisk CSI migration is [GA since 1.24](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.24.md#feature-17)

I.e. 1.24 already required the CSI driver  to be installed. In 1.27 we only removed the in-tree code for AWS EBS, but it has been (mostly) unused for 2 releases already.

Author: The documentation is capturing the version since the use of the CSI driver was mandatory. So 1.27 is correct, right?

Author: Updated the version in the latest commit.

  as Kubernetes' core no longer provides built-in support. The Kubernetes project provides an equivalent
  CSI driver,
  [Azure Disk](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azuredisk-csi-driver).
* [`cinder`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#cinder) - Cinder (OpenStack block storage)

>     &mdash; but for Kubernetes version 1.26 and onwards, this volume type is **only** available via a separate CSI driver 

Reviewer 4: CSI migration is GA since 1.24

Author: The documentation is capturing the version since the use of the CSI driver was mandatory. So 1.24 is correct, right?

Author: Updated the version in the latest commit.

    as Kubernetes' core no longer provides built-in support. The Kubernetes project provides an equivalent
    CSI driver,
    [OpenStack Cinder](https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack/blob/master/docs/cinder-csi-plugin/).

> * [`gcePersistentDisk`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#gcepersistentdisk) - GCE Persistent Disk &mdash; but for Kubernetes version 1.28 and onwards, this volume type is **only** available via a separate CSI driver 

Reviewer 4: GCE PD CSI migration is GA since 1.25

Author: The documentation is capturing the version since the use of the CSI driver was mandatory. So 1.28 is correct, right?

Author: Updated the version in the latest commit.

* [`vsphereVolume`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#vspherevolume) - vSphere VMDK volume
  (**migration on by default** starting v1.25)

> The following PersistentVolume types are supported through the `CSIMigration` feature gate and require the corresponding CSI driver to be installed in the cluster. Kubernetes offers built-in APIs to facilitate their use.

Reviewer: Is that right? AIUI there is no longer a `CSIMigration` feature gate in current Kubernetes.

Author: @sftim, this was worded as per the advice received from @msau42.
@msau42, request you to kindly review if these sentences are appropriate.

Reviewer 4: I agree with @sftim, CSIMigration feature gate is now removed.

Reviewer 3: This comment is not addressed yet.  The core CSIMigration feature is GA and the feature gate is removed.
Suggest change to:
The following PersistentVolume types support CSIMigration and require the corresponding CSI driver to be installed in the cluster. Kubernetes offers built-in APIs to facilitate their use.

Author: @xing-yang This has been incorporated in the latest commit.

    as Kubernetes' core no longer provides built-in support. The Kubernetes project provides an equivalent
    CSI driver,
    [OpenStack Cinder](https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-openstack/blob/master/docs/cinder-csi-plugin/).
* [`gcePersistentDisk`](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#gcepersistentdisk) - GCE Persistent Disk &mdash; but for Kubernetes version 1.28 and onwards, this volume type is **only** available via a separate CSI driver 
  as Kubernetes' core no longer provides built-in support. The CSI driver you need to install and configure is
  [GCE Persistent Disk](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gcp-compute-persistent-disk-csi-driver).

Older versions of Kubernetes also supported the following in-tree PersistentVolume types:

* `photonPersistentDisk` - Photon controller persistent disk.
  (**not available** starting v1.15)
* `scaleIO` - ScaleIO volume.
  (**not available** starting v1.21)
* `flocker` - Flocker storage.
  (**not available** starting v1.25)
* `quobyte` - Quobyte volume.
  (**not available** starting v1.25)
* `storageos` - StorageOS volume.

>   (**not available** starting v1.25)

Reviewer: Should we list GCE PD here, rather than in the list of available drivers?
